B.N. Jones  
LFI Final Project  
Host a Tor relay at my library

**On the previous episode of get your library to host a Tor relay**  
I mentioned this idea casually in meetings. Our system's team created a card for it on their board. At the time, I worked in Public Services. Occasionally, a Systems team member would touch base with me and ask, "What about this Tor thing? It keeps floating to the top of our board." I always had an excuse why it wasn't a good time for that particular fight. (Why did I think it had to be a fight?) Then LFI came around. When I applied to LFI, I listed one of the goals as, "I want to put Tor relays in Tennessee libraries." In truth, I wrote "Tor nodes" but Alison corrected me. Then I transferred to the systems team and the time was right.

**Passively floated the idea on our staff message board**  
After LFI's in-person meetup, I posted a message to our internal staff message board if anyone wanted Tor camera stickers for their gizmos. I wanted to share the stickers but I also wanted to see if their would be any blow back about Tor. Six people wanted stickers. No one mentioned Tor.

**Explicitly asked how my colleagues felt about it, sort of**  
I sometimes write things on our meeting room whiteboard to spark conversations. I wrote "Does it matter if I install Tor my work laptop?" This garnered little to no reaction. I brought up that in the past, in the process of getting the Tor Project website unblocked by our web filter, I had been told explicitly by Metro's IT security team that all proxies were banned. With as soft a touch as possible, I explained I just wanted a non-malicious website unblocked, and not to install anything on work or public PCs. Tor Project's website got whitelisted. Flash forward to now. My supervisor pointed out that that was kind of absurd to "block proxies" considering we use [EZproxy](https://www.oclc.org/en/ezproxy.html) for majority of our resources. I went ahead and installed Tor Browser on my work laptop.  

**Administrators X and Y**  
I floated the idea during a team meeting that our library hosting a Tor relay with me administering it should be my final project for LFI. No one objected but it was suggested I talk it over with Administrator X and Administrator Y. Administrator X is less tech savvy, but dedicated proponent of intellectual freedom. I explained to Administrator X difference between Tor relays and Tor Browser. Administrator Y is more tech savvy, but not necessarily ideologically committed to privacy. Administrator Y were okay with the idea but wanted me to touch base with the library's chief Metro IT Liaison. I had previously described the relationship between Metro IT and library systems [here](https://libraryfreedom.chat/t/week-14-infosec-discussion/157/7?u=librarianbryan). Metro IT Liaison said Administrator X previously approached them about a relay after the publicity in Kilton. At the time, Metro IT Liaison shot down the idea saying it would eliminate our E-Rate funding. I explained to Administrator X this interpretation was due to confusion between the Tor relays and Tor Browser. Administrator X asked for a one-sheeter to share the whole admin team, or possibly the Board. After consulting with Alison, I supplied Administrator X with this [info sheet](https://github.com/alisonLFP/libraryfreedominstitute/blob/master/assignments/week26/B.N.Jones%20LFI%20Week%2026%20Project/Tor%20Relay%20one%20pager.pdf). Later, Administrator Y asked for a stripped down one. I supplied them this [document](https://github.com/alisonLFP/libraryfreedominstitute/blob/master/assignments/week26/B.N.Jones%20LFI%20Week%2026%20Project/Tor%20Relay%20revised%20one%20pager.pdf). Perhaps I did not follow directions.

**Installed a test relay**  
Acting in accord, I personally signed up for a cloud server to test installing and monitoring a relay. I used [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/) and spun up a virtual [Cent OS](https://www.centos.org/) (the non-commercial version of Red Hat Enterprise Linux "RHEL" as our work servers are RHEL servers) machine. My supervisor suggested I use AWS as this would be better professional experience, but I went with Digital Ocean because I was familiar with the interface. I missed the part in the Tor documentation that said not to use Digital Ocean aas they are already crowded with relays, but my relay was given a different AS number than the one listed in the Tor docs. Installing the relay took a [few simple commands](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/TorRelayGuide/RPMUpdates) that are outlined in the Tor Relay documentation. Anyone with experience installing software from the command line could do it. You can see my [relay](https://metrics.torproject.org/rs.html#details/8FC8CA09759EAFE3DE1D5EC4D8C926B2376463CE) here. Getting it installed was easy but I am less experienced with network administration so I tried to be very conscientious about [getting the settings right](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/TorRelayGuide#Parttwo:technicalsetup). This required some in terminal text editing that might be intimidating to a beginner. The Tor documentation was clear if a little scattershot. I did not set up an Exit Relay as it is not recommended if you are going to run other services which I will probably do with this server. Later, I configured it to use IPv6 which is recommended.  It ended up costing more than I thought, so I went in and tweaked the settings per Tor documentation to [set limit on outbound traffic](https://www.torproject.org/docs/tor-manual.html.en#AccountingMax) (and the costs per month) and then hibernate the relay until the next month. I didn't break anything, but I'll have to wait until next month to see if the limits work. One thing I am curious about is the guard and middle probability. I need to research that more. I signed up for the appropriate Tor mailing lists.

**Q&A with administrators**  
I was asked to debrief the admin team about Tor. This was actually on the same day that I hosted a [privacy workshop](https://librarianbryan.github.io/plmi-privacy-training_) for rural library directors. I explained what Tor was, the difference between relays and Tor Browser. We discussed the costs and payment options if not hosted on Metro hardware. We discussed events in Kilton. Administrator X said they wanted to touch base with Metro legal, and have an informal conversation with head of Metro IT. That's where we are...
